Hey there, welcome to the Paws at Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there.
All right, with that, I would love to introduce our featured leader today, Kris Fabick, Data
Scientist at Nissan North America. Kris, thank you so much for joining us today. I am so
excited to have you. Could you introduce yourself and tell us a little bit about something you'd
like to do for fun as well?
Sure. So happy to be here. I'm a longtime listener, I guess first time speaker. But yeah,
I work at Nissan. I'm a data scientist. I've been here for about six years. And before
I came here, I was a high school math teacher. So I did that for a decade. Super fun, just
needed a change. And this has been great. I have a seven-year-old at home that I love
to hang out with. She's my favorite person in the world, followed close second by my
wife. And we, yeah, we just have a lot of fun. And then outside of work and outside
of family, I referee soccer games at a fairly high level. I do high school, college, all
the colleges. So division, all the NCAA divisions, NAIA. And then I do semi-professional adult
games as well.
That's so exciting. What is the best and worst thing about being a referee?
I love, I'm a team player. I've just always, I don't remember life before soccer. So I've
always been really good at team things. I love needing to rely on other people and also
them relying on me. And that's really no different as an official. It's just a smaller team.
There's like three or four of us. If you don't have a video review, like, you know,
officials offsite doing video review. But it's, it's, I love the teamwork and I love
getting to meet people from all over the world. Soccer brings people, I mean, I don't travel
that far, but, but soccer brings people from all, from all over, all different cultures
and backgrounds. And it's super fun to have that experience. Yeah. The worst thing I guess
is there's a lot of pressure sometimes that some of the high level games with everything
being, you know, on video it's great. We want to get all of our calls, right. But like,
there's a lot of scrutiny sometimes and sometimes things are not clear and there are judgment
calls and a lot of, you know, announcers don't, don't know that they don't always know the
rules. And so sometimes, you know, you kind of get a bad, a bad draw on something, even
though you've done everything within your power. And, and it, it, it really, as you
know, someone like my whole job there is to be, to be fair. And sometimes it feels really
bad when I make a mistake. I'm humanized and I do make them, but sometimes it feels really
bad when I make a mistake and it, you know, 35 people on a team, plus all of their fans
are really angry for a while. I'm mad at you. Okay, everybody, you heard it here. Be nice
to referees. Some of my best friends are referees. If you don't know this about me,
I used to play roller derby and in roller derby, we need refs all the time, desperately.
So a lot of roller derby players also referee and yeah, it's a hard job and the sport doesn't
run without them. So be nice to refs. Okay, everybody, let's get a little context for
what Chris does so that we can ask good questions in Slido. And actually the context building
that I would like to do today is about Chris's PositConf talk. If you do not know Chris and
his co-speaker, who is I think Kristen Carr, is that right? Yes. And she's on the call.
She could wave. She's on video right now. Hey, Kristen. Oh, I'm such a big fan. I loved
your talk and I think that it's still in being edited. So if you are registered for Conf
and you see like replays or on-demand videos, I think that Chris and Kristen's talk is still
being edited. I just realized your names are both Chris and Kristen. Yeah, it's so
funny. Okay. I would love it if you could both, if you feel like it, give a little recap
of your talk. I will just say it was about pair programming, which is one of my favorite
topics and it was a pitch for how pair programming can be a mechanism for sustainable deployment.
Fantastic topic. Chris, could you give us a little recap? Yeah. So I mean, it was a 20-minute talk.
I'll try to make it a little shorter here. Yeah. Abstract level is totally fine. Yeah. Yeah. So
we really approached the talk with, we sort of had two things we really wanted to drive home
because a lot of data science, you have these great ideas, right? But then like, how do you
actually get them to your end users? Like that's always the struggle. And like, that's really
difficult to teach in school because it depends on like a lot of specific tools that maybe your
company has. But going outside of those tools, we wanted to talk about how do you get a business
team to be able to deploy something successfully to another business team? So we're very clear about
the type of deployment that this is, right? It's not an enterprise level deployment. We're not
trying, we work in supply chain. We're trying to deliver like a machine learning model to predict
something to help another supply chain user make a better business decision, right? So we're not
trying to like predict how many cars are going to be sold in some market for some other sales
division, right? And so to do that, we're just, I feel like I'm sort of like the captain of like
our little data science team here in supply chain. We've got like four data scientists at best and
then a manager and then like, you know, we kind of do a bunch of other things. So we don't have all
these enterprise level tools. We don't have this IS support. And so how do we get this tool out
there and how are we going to maintain it, right? Because we don't have all those enterprise
level tools and support, we're also responsible for that support. And so our solution to that,
our team has been really successful in deploying projects using pair programming. And we have come
to learn in when we practiced our presentation that it turns out a lot of people don't know what
pair programming even is. And so we needed to sort of define that, define what it isn't and what it
is. We used a lot of really cool cat gifs to tell you what it is not. And that was super fun to
research at work. We had a great day when we put all those together. But it is essentially just
working with a coding partner. It is not necessarily like sitting side by side and like
spending your entire day together, like you go to lunch together and you check your emails together,
like that's not what we're doing. It's really a mindset of like, how do you work together
with someone else so that you both, you create a redundancy in your project so that you both can
address any concerns that come up. You can react quickly to a business need or change,
both in development and then also in deployment, right? So it's the idea of building in human
redundancy into your project so that you can safely deploy this thing to the business. And
then you can still go on vacation because somebody else can cover when you're out.
Right. Which is essential to peace of mind. But also there are so many, as a teacher,
so I come from teaching too, as a teacher, there are so many things that learners and everyday
users, even power users of R and Python, do not learn until they see somebody else do it. So you
can be pair programming and somebody will click something or do something or use a keyboard
shortcut. And you're like, wait, what did you just do? I didn't know that was possible. The way that
you expand the things that you know in your skillset, I mean, pair programming has got to
be at the top of my list for how to do that. It's just so beneficial. I wanted to ask,
because in your talk, you talked about needing to pitch this to leadership. You were like,
hey, leadership, you're going to have to let two of us work on one thing at the same time,
which is going to feel like you're spending twice the resources for the same amount of time.
What was the most persuasive thing or metric that you feel like you were able to use
to persuade leadership? You talked about a few of them. Yeah. Yeah. Kristen presented this slide in
our talk. And I think we pulled out three key ones, which was that, yes, it is double,
sort of double the resources, but that doesn't mean it's double the time. And so I actually,
this was the only question that I had time for after the talk. And in hindsight, I was like,
I don't think I answered that the right way, because somebody was saying like,
no, you're right. Let me correct it for the record. The question was like,
the statistic we reported was there was a group that did sort of a, not really a longitudinal
study, but a longer term study of the results of pair programming with developers. And what
they found was that it does take 15% more time to implement a pair programming project,
but that results in 15% less defects in the code. And so one thing we tried to highlight is like
15% less defects is not like equivalent to 15. They don't like balance each other out, like
saving even like 5% of the defects is probably a lot more time than just 15% of the time spent in
the project, right? Because you have all these downstream implications and other teams get
involved and maybe you have production data out there and it's impacting something like that.
And so the question that I got was, I'm surprised that you only said 15%. I would have intuitively
thought it would be 100% more time because there's two of you. Two people. Right. And so,
but I do think that projects go quicker when you're paired because, so I guess maybe I should
get into a couple of different kinds of pair programming. The most common one is called like
driver navigator, where you're actually sitting together. And even that is going to be quicker
because somebody is sort of like, it's like they have a roadmap and they're like, oh, the next
thing we're going to need to do is this. And that's going to, we're probably going to have
this little bit of a problem. Let me go see if I can resolve that or think through the next step
while you're coding this previous thing. So it is quicker, I think, once you're in it.
But I think what people struggle with is that hurdle of getting into pair programming because
it does take a little bit more time to get started because you're trying to learn each other, right?
First of all, you have to get your repo set up and make sure you can all use Git and collaborate
effectively. And then, you know, you've got everything named the way you want to. And sometimes
you have these conversations about, well, how do you want this organized? Well, I was thinking this
and I was thinking this and you have to compromise. And in the end, I think you get a better product,
right? Because more than one person has looked at it. But it certainly can, it can slow you down.
Our leadership was not particularly concerned about the resources. Thankfully, we have a pretty
young team. And so we had proven ourselves to be really valuable. And they were kind of like,
hey, if you say this is the right way to go, let's give it a shot.
But also, we had previously had a lot of conversations about how are we supposed to
maintain this? And for how long do we maintain it for? Like forever? And so how many projects can we
accept to maintain without becoming just a maintenance team? And so I think that argument
was really pivotal for our leadership was that you don't, you're not stuck. It's not a real risk
to deploy this thing. Because we had, so the particular project we talked about in our talk,
Kristen and I both are familiar with it. But outside of that, we also have a standardized
like team readme. And so we've put enough details in there that anybody on our team
could pick it up and have some context to get going with it. So I think the stability that we
were able to sell with pair programming was probably the biggest comfort for our leadership.
And they were willing to invest the time or the sort of the doubled resource to get that out
because of the value in the end. Yeah. And I agree 100%. And I wanted to also
kind of lean into some more of those challenges and benefits because Arsenis just asked a question
in Slido that has kind of risen to the top. Don't forget you can vote for questions in Slido if you
like them. Arsenis, would you like to hop in and ask that live? Sure. All right. Thanks, Libby. And
thank you, Chris, for joining us today. So my question is, you know, kind of continuing with
this pair programming. There's another question in the Slido that's similar and it's along the
lines of what I was thinking. But as a when I'm writing code, a lot of times I think like I go
into a zone and I'm just kind of doing things on my own. I don't want to hear anything from anybody.
So I'm wondering in pair programming, is there any are there any challenges or additional benefits
to the individual that you've noticed? Like for me, one of them would be kind of sharing the coding
moment with like like kind of getting out of my own head when I'm when I'm writing code. That
would be a challenge. But yeah, if you could speak to that a little bit. Yeah. Great. Great
question. I think I've definitely had moments where I've sort of been on a pair programming call
and I like I can't like my brain's like not I'm not in it enough to like get to the solution. And
then as soon as I get off the call, I'm like, oh, let me try this little idea. And I'm like, oh,
yeah, now I know what to do. And so I think the other thing that that we tried to emphasize in
our talk is pair programming is not there's not like one way to do it. And so you have to really
know like your own strengths as a as a programmer and and your own weaknesses. Right. And so you may
have to say, I'm blocked right here. I need to take a break. Let's do this separately. Think
about the solution and come back and see what we what we had together. I think the biggest benefits
is what Libby said earlier, like watching somebody code live, you can really you may end up at the
same exact answer, but the way you literally the keys you typed to get there can be very different.
And you can just learn some really cool tricks or like someone uses a totally different package
than you. And you're like, wait, what's that? I've never even heard of that. And they're like, oh,
it's the greatest thing ever. Yeah. But I but I do think that you do have to know when you need a
break, but you have to also balance that with like you don't just need a break because it's
uncomfortable, because sometimes you need to lean into that discomfort. And and that's where you're
going to actually like like get to the sharp point, like you're going to iron each other, like
you're going to sharpen each other because you're you're really challenging each other. Like,
no, I really thought we should do it this way. Well, I really thought we should do it this way.
And instead of just like separating and sort of like presenting like your own business case back
to your partner, like you can you can iron it out together and you you have to be willing to
be wrong or say, I see it that way. You seem really passionate about that. Let's try that.
Let me let me set aside what I thought was best and try something else. And I've been I'd like
to think I'm a fairly humble person, but I have been even more humbled in pair programming because
there have been times that I in my head, I'm like, this is stupid. This is absolutely the wrong way.
And then it works beautifully. And I'm like, well, I see that's why I'm better with someone else.
Yeah, you know what? I think that one of the benefits for me is that I don't stay struggling
forever when I have a mistake because someone else is going to see it easier than I can.
If they're navigating, they'll be like, oh, it's that extra space you have around that,
you know, whatever that thing is, things that I just wouldn't see. So instead of me staying
stuck for 15 minutes trying to figure something out, somebody else can unblock me super quickly.
Um, I do experience the same thing you do where I'm like, I'm I just can't figure this out right
now. But I know the moment I get off of this call, I'm going to figure it out in two seconds. So
let's take a five minute break and like meet back at the top of the hour. Fantastic question,
Arsenis. And Arsenis is going to be our guest next week, everybody. Arsenis is a data scientist
at Indeed. And he's going to be joining us to talk about his data science journey and all kinds of
stuff that I love to talk about, like figuring out who you are as a data scientist, which has
been a journey for me too. Okay, I put another poll in Slido. I wanted to go over the results
of the first one. The first one was, have you ever done pair programming at work? Chris, only 25%
of people said yes. 75% of them said no, they'd never pair programmed at work.
And then our new poll that we have up is, does having someone see or watch you code make you
self-conscious? 85% of people said yes. And this is something that I really need to help
learners get over a lot when they're first starting, but also seasoned programmers need
to get over it. Do you have any tips for that? I would say, find somebody at your work that you
respect and that you know will respect you and try, see if you can pair program a little bit with
them just to get the feel for it. Even if it's just a sort of a, I don't want to say a throwaway,
maybe a pet project, right? Something that is not like business. Low stakes. Yes, that's what we
mean. Yes. Something that you're not sweating, just to see, because sometimes you don't,
you can hear us say like, oh, it's so cool. But when you feel that moment, that spark of like,
you've been doing that the whole time. I could do that too. It's like, so it's that moment,
if anybody's ever taught, it's that moment that you see your students get it, but it's
happening inside of you. It's so cool. And so if you can find, I don't want you to just go out and
go to the most intimidating person at your company and be like, let's go. That is not the way to
build your confidence. So find a safe place, make sure that it's a safe place for you.
And to be honest, not everybody has, I mean, I've been at Nissan for six years and when I started,
there was nobody here that I could pair program with. I was the, there wasn't even data science
as a job title in my area. So you may have to build into it. And maybe you can be, you can be
the person who is that safe person for someone else. Maybe someone else is interested in learning
Python or R or something. And maybe you can just be like, hey, yeah, you could probably do that in
Excel. Do you want to do it with me? And we'll do it in R instead. And just a little, just a
little project. It doesn't have to take forever. That's a fantastic idea. And I wanted to also
sort of get a little bit more context around supply chain stuff. I have a supply chain
background from my undergrad. I did operations research and stuff, but I know not all, not
everybody does. Could you give just a super high level overview of like, what does that mean? I
work at Nissan. I'm a data scientist and I'm in this sort of supply chain area. Yeah. Yeah. So if
you think, I'll try to paint you a picture of like, think about a process flow here, right? So
we have purchasers in our purchasing department and they go and they figure out who they're going
to go buy parts from, car parts, right? Wheels, steering wheels, whatever, electrical cords.
And so that's purchasing. That is not supply chain yet. Once we have contracts with these
suppliers, then we order parts from them, right? And so now we're in, now we're starting to get
into supply chain. So we bring parts from suppliers to the assembly plants. I'm at one of them right
now. So that's supply chain. Then the parts are here on our campus and they could be in a couple
different locations. Then they eventually go to the manufacturing line and they get put on a
vehicle. That is now manufacturing. That is not supply chain either. So supply chain is on the
front end, bringing parts in. And then after the car is built, there's another supply chain, same
supply chain, but another component of supply chain is where we have the finished vehicle and we need
to get it out to a dealer. So supply chain is sort of, it's like we're giving a big hug to
manufacturing. We're on the front end of manufacturing, bringing raw parts in, raw parts,
and then we build cars and then we're on the back end where we deliver the finished vehicle. So
we have a lot of, we have a lot of data. We have a lot of part level data and then we have a lot of
like vehicle VIN level data, but it's all sort of before it goes into be a customer. It hasn't
been bought by a customer generally. So there's not a lot of PII in our data. We don't have
customer information because it's all pretty much before it's been to the dealer. And probably some
location data too. Like we have this storage location. We have these dealerships. They all
exist in different places that are a certain distance away from wherever we need to move
things. Right. Thank you. I got a question in Slido that is anonymous. It has two anonymous
replies on it. Whoever asked this question, this is a great one. It says in pair programming,
is it better to have both devs be at the same level of experience or expertise? And like,
how does that play out when they're not the same level? And there are a couple of replies to this,
which I think are really interesting. One is like, what if the second party is not a dev?
Is it, could it just be like a tech savvy stakeholder? And the other one is,
Hey, it's a tough thing to judge or measure skill and comfort with programming just casually. Like
it could cause discomfort or awkwardness if someone thought that they were the more experienced coder
and it turns out they're not. Like, I guess these are, these are questions and doubts,
right. That kind of bubble up maybe when you're talking about pair programming in an enterprise
setting. Do you have any thoughts on those? Yeah. And I definitely don't think we should be
going around labeling people. You're a good dev and you're, you're a not good dev and we should
pair you together for that reason. That, yeah, nobody wants to be judged by their... That's
probably not beneficial, right? Yeah. No, no, no. And I, so I think, I think the question was
something along the lines of like, is it best to like pair people of sort of equal maturity?
And I think all the pairings are great. I think you can get things out of all of them,
but you, you probably do want to be intentional with like, when do you choose
more equal maturity pairings? And when do you choose a more like upscaling opportunity,
right? And so when, so Kristen and I are both data scientists, we both have the same master's
degree in data science from the same university. We, we both were on the same innovation team. So
I would say we are, we are maturity wise, we're equal. And so we can do projects a certain way,
but I also do a lot of projects. We're like an, we're like an innovation team in supply chain,
but we have other, we have like an inventory control team and we have like a finished vehicles
team. And so we have like techie people. Maybe they're not quite like a data scientist,
but maybe they can, they can program, right? Like they can program in Python and we want to
implement a solution for their business area. My team, my innovation team should not own that
solution. That business team in that particular area ideally should own that solution because
they know when it's going to need updates. And if they can make that update,
my team is off the hook, right? We can go do innovative things. And so we've done a lot,
I've done a lot of pair programming projects with other business units. Like this would be that like
key stakeholder kind of idea where I, and I like physically the first few times I had to do it,
I had to stop my, I like committed to myself before the meeting that I would not share my screen.
And it was hard because I'm like, click, yeah, click over there. No, the other, no, the other
one, no down a little bit. Right. And it's, it's, it's tough, but if you don't go through that
discomfort, you never let that other person upscale. Right. And so, you know, I, as I would
say, as the lead in that pairing, I tried to be really patient and really have a lot of empathy
and just be like, no, you're doing great. A lot of encouragement and like, look at how far you've
come, right. Help them reflect because sometimes when you're in the learning, it's hard to see
that you're learning, but if someone will help you like look back, you're like, oh, actually,
yeah, that's pretty cool. So I don't agree. Yeah. I don't think there's a bad way to pair.
Just, you know, if you're, if you're, you certainly can do pairings to achieve upskilling
or you can do pairings with more, more level people to, to maybe pilot a new innovative
thing that your company has never done before. I probably wouldn't use that as an opportunity
for upskilling. I love that. I think one of the articles that we put in the resource center
mentioned that as a strategy, and there were like a few different scenarios that
you may choose to pair. I can look and see if that's in there, but there, we did find
in one of the articles that we use. Yeah. So Kristen's referring to there's, at the end of
our talk, we had a, my GitHub repo, we had a QR code you can scan. So she can find that link and
put it in the chat. And it has some articles about pair programming and some other things
in there as well. I think it's important to also remember and recognize that just like with
mentoring, you're going to learn by directionally in pair programming. So if you are the more
experienced programmer, you are probably going to learn things from the less experienced programmer
and being open to that and expecting that and embracing that is going to be mutually beneficial
for everybody. I learn things from learners constantly. They're Googling things that I take
for granted, right? So they're finding new and different solutions that I don't know exist.
It's one of my very favorite things. It's like reverse mentoring. Everybody wins.
Okay. Let's check out Slido over here. Thank you so much, Anonymous Asker, for your fantastic
question. And we had another question. I want to say it was about supply chain. Actually,
Rachel had a question about supply chain too. Rachel, did you want to ask that while I'm
looking for the question? Yeah, sure. And thanks, Chris, for explaining some of the supply chain
use cases. I always just think it's so fun to get to hear what are the different problems that
people are solving across industries. And I remember you telling me about the container
fill ratio and that being something that really opened my eyes to some of the problem solved in
supply chain. I was just wondering if you could tell us a little bit about that.
Sure. Yeah. We mentioned this. We kind of allude to it in our talk. We sort of give that as the
example of like, look, we actually did pair programming in the wild. This is not something
we just have thought about or thought it was fun to talk about. So we bring in these parts from
overseas. Some of our parts come from overseas. Most of them don't, but some of them do.
And I don't know if you've ever seen these pictures of these massive containers that have
all these shipping containers, like these boats that have these big shipping containers on them.
I guess the shipping containers really stuck with me because the deposit office is right on the
harbor and I see the shipping containers. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So those big, they're literally
tractor trailer size, right? The trailers of that, but for shipping, so they're more sturdy.
And so we fill those up with parts, but we can't actually fill up the whole container,
right? Because there's like air in between these parts. And so we have a KPI that's called
container fill ratio. And it's literally just like how much space does the actual material take up
divided by the total, like actual cubic meters of the whole cube. It's not really a cube,
it's a prism. And so that's a KPI that we use. And so we needed to predict, we were asked from
the business to predict what would that container fill ratio be if we know roughly the demand,
right? What do we expect that container fill ratio to be? And that was important for helping
our team book containers. They have to like reserve them in advance, the capacity for them.
And so they sometimes get these sort of wildly off bookings and it either costs us money because
we have to like, oh no, hurry, we need to scramble and we need a couple more. Or it's like
we've reserved seven and we only needed three and we just paid for space. So that was one,
we did a machine learning model to predict that. So again, it's a very specific use case, right?
Only a couple of people need access to it. So we were able to build it with Posit tools. We used
Vetiver, we used Tidy models, we used Vetiver, and then we published it on our Posit Connect server.
And so our business users could just go to Connect and they could like go and see the
things real quick and they could get their answer in like five seconds. What is the prediction? And
then they could make whatever decision they needed to make. Nice, which is like the ultimate goal,
right? And having, deploying something that other people actually use is like the best feeling ever
because so much of what we do as data scientists goes nowhere. It's like a POC that goes nowhere.
I love shipping container problems as an operations research girlie. I think one of the most
interesting problems ever is how to stack containers once they get into the port,
because you have all of these containers coming in off of different ships. They have to be stacked
in a certain way so that the ones that are leaving first can be on the top of all these stacks.
Otherwise, what are you going to do? You have to move a bunch of these containers,
unsack them, get to one that's like four down, right? That problem is so mathematically intensive
and juicy. Supply chain is such a great place to be if you love math. Also, I have worked on
supply chain problems where the problem was packing the container efficiently. We have all
these differently shaped things that need to fill this space of cubic meters and like how are we
going to put it in there the right way so we fit the right amount of stuff in? Very, very juicy.
Okay, let's move on. I had a question from Darakshan who asked about stakeholders.
Darakshan, are you available to ask live? If you are, that would be amazing.
Let's see. Can we find her?
Hi. Hi, everybody.
There she is. Hey. Would you like to ask your question live?
Yes. So whenever we talk about data, data science, the output we are getting,
the basics are like setting clear expectations, right? So my question goes on this,
like how as a peer programmer you set realistic expectations from the stakeholder?
How do you manage the communication gap? Like when we talk about one person perspective,
so that's one thing, but when there is a peer, so I just want to know from this perspective.
So communication and setting expectations, that's it.
That's a good question. Like are both people, if two programmers are peer programming and
working on a project at the same time, do they always communicate with the stakeholder at the
same time? That's a good question. Let me think about it for a minute. In a lot of our peer
programming applications, the stakeholder is there. Okay. I also need to clarify that sometimes
when I say peer programming, I mean like four people. We are working on a project right now
where Kristen and I are working as like the technical like data science side of the pairing
and we want redundancy there for business reasons. And then there's a business stakeholder side and
we need their input because like they know all the business logic and like we don't know, like
we need them to make a decision on, hey, this supplier is in Kentucky. Is Kentucky considered
in the south region or is that in the north region? Like we don't know. And we need them
there to like make those choices. And they're like, well, it depends. Sometimes it's been in
the north and sometimes it's been in the south. And we're like, well, what business logic do you
actually want us to implement going forward? And they're like, hmm, I don't know. Let me think
about it. So sometimes our stakeholders are part of that pairing. They may not be part, like we
may have separate coding sessions, but we do, we generally, yeah, I think I'm talking myself into
the answer here. We generally have both pair, both pieces of the pairing in those stakeholder
meetings. And I think that's valuable for a couple of reasons. One, I have a really bad memory. So I
forget a lot of things and it's really helpful to have somebody else come in and be like, hey,
also don't forget about that one thing that we had a problem with and we solved it this way.
And I'm like, oh, great. Thank you for that. And also I think sometimes just different personalities
go better with different stakeholders, right? So while I like to think that I'm approachable,
I'm going to be honest. I think there are a couple of people at Nissan that think I'm not
approachable and, but maybe they think Kristen is approachable. And so maybe they're more willing
to like engage in a conversation with her for whatever reason. So yeah. I think that's totally
valid. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, we, we definitely, we definitely like to communicate early and often,
and especially if that news is, is potentially unwelcome. We're not like, we're just going to
try to hide this unwelcome thing until the end and hope you don't notice it. We'd like to call
it out at the beginning and say, hey, you know, you told us there was seasonality. This happens
to me all the time about this one data set at Nissan. You told me there was seasonality in this
data. Here's, here's the graph of that data. Can you, can you show me where you see that seasonality?
Because you're wanting me to put seasonality into this model because you, you have a gut feeling
about it, but like, I don't actually see it. And so I'm mathematically not inclined to include this
because I can tell you that I don't think it's going to help. And so we, yeah, we just try to
have early, early communication often. And we do try to include as many people as have knowledge of,
of the project that could, that could offer something. Does that answer the question?
I think so. Yes. And that actually I see is giving us a clapping emoji. So I'm going to say that she's
saying yes. I did not know that pair programming, pair programming might have meant for people. I
wasn't thinking about that. I was thinking pair equals two. That's really, really interesting.
I also think it's so super valid that like, you may not be the right person to slot in and talk
to that stakeholder, but having more people who know the same amount about the project as you
could be really beneficial. Cause like, Hey, that person seems to really gel with my partner,
but not me. What a relief to not have to worry about that in the communication aspect.
Also, Mark Ricky put the most upsetting thing in the chat. Everybody, can everybody see the
most efficient way to pack 17 squares inside of another square? It's awful. Everything is jumbled
and backwards. I'll be sure to, to share that with you if you haven't seen it. Chris later in
an email, but I don't know if you're looking at the chat. Yeah. Anyway, I can't, I can't keep up
with the chat when I'm just listening. So I definitely recommend that Chris. I don't know
how Libby can do both at once. My brain is very special. Okay. Let's move on to a question that
we always have to get in, which is an AI question. And this time Mike asked it, Mike,
would you be willing to ask your question live? What a silly question. I know you are
or you will be. Hello. There he is. Hey Mike. So, um, yeah, it's the obligatory AI question. I'm
afraid. Um, do you think that AI and specifically things like co-pilot might be able to replace
some aspects of peer programming? I'm, I'm, I'm hesitant to say to just like flat out say no,
because, um, I've, you know, I, I believe that I have room to learn. Um, so I'm sure that probably
there are some, maybe, maybe just offering different coding options. Um, but I do not
think that it is, uh, an equivalent replacement for another, another human who, as we've just
talked about, right. Has different personality traits and like can talk to stakeholders. Like
your AI cannot talk to your stakeholders. Uh, or maybe I would not recommend you have your AI talk
to your stakeholders about your project. Um, maybe it could. Um, but yeah, certainly I think,
I think like co-pilot can help you with like code suggestions. And I would argue, like do that in
your pairing. I wouldn't say like, you have to do them. They're not even like separate things,
right? Like I would, I would do both, but I still think having two people, two different, uh,
like thought processes about how to like, what's your next step in the project. Cause,
cause generally when we talk to AI about coding stuff, it's, it's like a specific thing that
we're asking it to do, but like the project is probably a bunch of specific things layered
together. Um, and I think, I think to have the redundancy, you certainly don't get any redundancy
and like, I wanted to lean into something Libby that you said, you said something about what a
relief. And I can tell you that, um, the, the most, the, the, I kept wanting in our talk, I kept
having to, to tone it down. Cause Krista was like, that's not the point. Um, but like I kept wanting
to go like, just tell everybody like how great pair programming is because like, you can just
like relax. Like it's not all on you. And in fact, none of it's on you. Like you have, you have
officially like documented it and like created that redundancy. So like, you are not the only
person who can do things. Um, and you certainly don't get that with AI, unfortunately. Yeah.
I agree. Cause it is still on you. You are still the only responsible party when you're using AI.
AI is not going to take on any of the responsibility. And when I use AI to help my code,
I actually know less about it. And so if someone's like, oh, like now can you change it to do this?
I'm like, oh, I don't know. Let me ask the AI if it can do that. Because I don't always know
every single thing that was coded. And I think that's, I'm, I'm, I'm pretty cautious in that
regard. I'm, I'm pretty hesitant to like put that in my production tools because if I don't know
what it's doing and I can't explain that to my stakeholders, that comes back. I look like an
idiot. Right. Rightfully so. This is one of those things where it's like, we're trying to move
towards the future and have things coded for us and we don't have to do all of it. But that means
that we have to be comfortable with not knowing how every single thing is working and being able
to vouch for it, which freaks me out. I'm seeing people shake their heads in their cameras, which
like I get it. Yeah. That's a icky feeling as a developer. Okay. Fantastic questions are coming in.
They're so, so good. Oh, you know what? This is while I'm breaking here. Let me mention
Posit Discord. We last time last week put out a link that was like, hey, join. Here it is again
really quickly in the chat for you. This link is going to be up for only a few hours. So if you
have not yet joined the Posit Discord, it is invite only right now. This is your invite.
Get on the Posit Discord server. Very, very important. I have side quests for you. If you're
going to do this, get on the server, change your name, your display name to be your real name,
because I see your real name in Zoom. I'm not going to recognize you if you have a screen name
and then make your way to the Data Science Hangout channel and ping me like the highlight,
send a message, do something to say, hey, I'm here from the Hangout. I'm going to change your
name to yellow, give you a little badge for the Data Science Hangout. It's very special and fun.
So please go do that. We would love to see you. We can continue these conversations after
the Thursday. And while everybody is doing that, Chris, I wanted to ask you what we ask
everybody on the Hangout, which is, do you have a piece of career advice that has really stuck
with you or that you like to give people that you find impactful? I'll put you on the spot for a
second. Yeah. Yeah. We have a lot of interns that come through our supply chain area. And so I
actually get this question a lot from them because they sort of see my role as data scientist,
and maybe that's what they are interested in doing. And the advice that I typically give them
is try not to just go too deep into the newest thing right now, which if we're being honest,
is just AI. That's it. That's the only topic. And try to spread yourself out. Be able to play
any position on the team, which means you need to understand math, like really understand the math
that's happening. So that when someone says like, oh, this model seems to be under predicting all
the time. What do you think about that? You have something that you can say about that because
you've looked at the data and you understand why is there a bias in that model and what models might
not have a bias in that same way. So understanding math. I know a lot of people just sort of equate
data science to machine learning and AI, and that boils my skin because there's so much more to good
data science than just that. So I have a degree in math. I really love operations research and
mathematical optimization. So that's not a thing. That's not for everybody, but that's a data science
skill set that if you want to be able to offer a lot of different solutions, that's an area you
can focus on learning. Also like learning how to communicate with people and like tell a story.
Like how to build proper visualizations. Like these may not seem as like cool or like
like they're not like home runs because you know they're not like the hottest thing right now.
But they are like fundamental and foundational and that's the stuff that people learn to trust you
with. If they can trust you with like a visualization, then maybe they can trust you
with this black box machine learning model. What a good lead-in to another Posit Conf speaker
because Kieran Healy from Duke University did the closing talk of Conf on trust and visualization,
data visualization and trust. It was such a good talk. Oh my gosh, once that one comes out for
everybody, you have to go watch it. Plus Kieran is just hilarious. And you can watch his Posit,
his data science hangout episode too, which was a while back with Jonathan McGearson.
Chris, I wanted to ask a quick rapid-fire fun one because Nellie asked, have you ever done
any fun data stuff related to your refereeing? I want to know too. I have, I have. I'm excited
about this. It's like both my things all put together. That's so exciting. Yes, so college
soccer in the United States and there's basically two organizations that assign referees to college
soccer games. Okay, one is called elite college soccer referees and the other one is called the
National Intercollegiate Soccer Officials Association. And if you look at my profile
picture for this hangout thing, I'm actually wearing a NYSOA polo. That's my professional
headshot from them. The NYSOA group is the longer standing one. They're the bigger one
and they collect data about their officials through when we like register with the NCAA.
We have to like register on this platform and they, so they get this, they get some like
demographic data and some, some things like that. So I, well, I got connected with the,
the executive director of NYSOA and she's, she actually refereed the women's world cup final
in 2023, 24. I don't remember what year it was. I'm really sorry. But yeah, Tori Penso,
she's amazing. And so she's, she's the executive director of NYSOA and she, I know her personally.
And so she like, was like, oh, you're a data scientist. Can you do something with this data?
Like, I want to know things. And I was like, yes, yes I can. So I took, they, they took out the,
the PII. Like I, I had, I needed like state, I needed like city and state level. So like,
honestly, there aren't, there's like 5,000 people in like the whole country that referee
college soccer games. So like, I could probably figure out like the people in my area, but I
didn't look at it, but they took out the names. And so like I had, I had like age, I had ethnicity,
I had race, I had years officiating, I had like their location, which was important because
she wanted to see like how far away or like the national assessors from like the national
referee. It's kind of, anyway. So yeah, I took, I took all that data and I, they were basically
like, just, just go like, see what you find and present back to us. So I did this. I actually
worked with, I did, I did that in pair programming too. I didn't even know it. There was a, there was
an intern who was working at UT, University of Texas, San Antonio, I think, who I got connected
with. Oh, I got connected with her through another person I know from NYSOA. And she was like, Hey,
I have this person. She needs to do a data, something internship or like project. Can you,
can you guys do this together? And I was like, absolutely. Let's, let's do it. So like I worked
with her and like, we cleaned the data a little bit. We put it into Tableau and we did, we did
some analysis. It was pretty much just building a bunch of visualizations, but then she and I
presented that to the executive board at their like annual meeting or whatever. And they were,
I, I continued to meet people from the executive board and they're like, Oh, you, you did, that was
amazing. Like, cause it was the first time they had ever looked at their data. Can you believe it?
In like 2023, it was the first time they had ever looked at their data and they could see, Oh,
7% of our officials are women and more than 50% of the games we assign are women's soccer games.
And that's a problem. We should be aware of the differences, right? Like, like how are we going
to, how are we going to make goals for ourselves if we don't know where we're at? So that was super
fun to do. Totally just did it on the side. But yeah, loved it. What a super fun question, Nellie.
Thank you for asking that. I loved it. And this is a really good example of like something I've
been talking to a lot of people about lately is giving talks, doing things on the side. Presentations
are really stressful and time-consuming sometimes, even just like giving a PositConf talk. It takes a
lot of your time and your effort. And so what are the benefits of that? What do you see from that?
It's that exposure to people seeing you do this work. Other people are probably doing it and not
talking about it. If you do it and you talk about it, you put yourself out there in a really great
way and make all kinds of fantastic connections. And you don't even have to be the best or the
brightest or the most talented at something. If you're the one talking about it out loud and brave
enough to do that, you're the one who gets the opportunities. So really, really working out loud
is so beneficial and I encourage everybody to do what Chris did. And so fun to hear that I might
have been somebody from my alma mater. That's great. Yeah. It's so fulfilling too. It is.
If you're doing it on the side, you have some sort of passion for it and it's fun. It's fun to get
feedback that other people are like, oh, I'm interested in hearing about that. Yes. Yeah. Oh,
this thing that I love is beneficial to somebody. Woohoo. Well, we have five minutes left. Do you
think that we could get in one more question? Let's see. Let's see what we can fit in here.
Adam, you had asked a question. Adam T., if you are here, you could ask that live real quick.
Hi, everybody. Hi, Chris. Hey, Adam. Basically, hello. I was basically wondering how you balance
the time that gets added on with pair programming with tasks that need to be done quickly because
I completely support upskilling. You know, if you've got a less experienced programmer with
you or if I happen to get somebody who's more experienced, which is a wonderful thing for me,
but it kind of adds on to their time load and I don't really want to hold them back or anybody
else in the workflow. So do you have a system of organizing tasks so that you don't accidentally
put something to a pair and then say, great, you all get to learn from this at the expense of
holding somebody else up? Yeah. No, our system is really just a vibe system right now. It's
really just checking in and trusting people to do their jobs and know their boundaries.
And so, yeah, I mean, I think there are certainly times when we get a request and I'm like, oh,
I really should include these other people on fixing this, but they need this done now.
I'm going to fix it and then later I'm going to go back and when they have time, I'm going to go
back and I'm going to show them what I did and maybe have them rerun it and check it out.
So we actually, there's a name for this and we lean into this in our talk as well. This is
called refactoring, which is, we didn't know, I'm going to define it because we didn't know what it
was when we were researching for our talk, but it's the process of going back and reviewing your
code and making it more accessible and readable and maybe adding those comments and stuff.
And so one of the other approaches to pair programming is not sitting together side by
side. It's actually what we call in our presentation as unstructured asynchronous,
where you're actually separating from each other and maybe you're doing different components of
the project individually, but you will come back together to refactor. And as long as you're
refactoring together, we believe if you're like, like Chris and I are sort of on the same level of
like maturity, I don't need to watch her type everything, but I can go back and look at her code
and I can say, oh, I see what you did here. Did you think about doing this here? Or that's unclear
to me. Can we add a comment? Because I wasn't sure what that code was doing. And then you still get
that redundancy with less of that time burden. So I think the big takeaway is like pair programming
can look like anything you want it to look like, as long as at the end of the day, my analogy in
our talk is that everybody should be able to ride the bike.
Right. Yeah. I love that. And for anybody who doesn't have the context of Chris and Kristen's
talk, they do go over the different types of pair programming and different projects or different
tasks might warrant a different level of pair programming up to and including asynchronous so
that you are just like passing things back and forth over a net and refactoring after each other
or checking things, which I think is great. Okay. We only have two minutes left, but I'm wondering
if we can just do one more mention for the Data Science or the Posit Discord server. I saw a bunch
of people tag me, like seven people tag me in the Data Science Hangout channel. Some of you already
have yellow names. That means that either someone's making you yellow already or I did it.
Like Greg, hey, Greg, Greg, Greg Turmel, you were already yellow. I got you. I would love it if you
could join the Hangout channel on the server. I'm going to put the link in one more time to join the
Posit Discord server. Reminder, this is only open for a few hours. We're invite only right now.
Make your display name your real name so I know who you are and tag me in the Data Science Hangout
channel so I can give you a role. Okay. This was a fantastic Data Science Hangout. Chris and Kristen
both, thank you so much for being here. This is one of my favorite topics. I would love to continue
this conversation in the Posit server, so hop in there so we can chat about it. Thank you so much,
Chris. Would you like to say goodbye to everybody? Kristen, too, if you would like to?
Yeah, this was so fun. I really I love this group. I love the energy. I love the positivity.
I appreciate all of you for your contributions and just thanks for making it so fun.
Wonderful. Thank you all for being here. If you would like to catch Chris's talk,
it is still being edited and will be up on demand on our platform quite soon, I hope, and then all
the talks will be up sometime in December. We need time to edit them all and fix the captions and
everything up on our YouTube channel, so you can look forward to that. If you saw good things in
the chat today that you want to save, you can click the three dots at the top right of the chat
to save it. I will give you a second to do that as everyone is hopping off. I'm seeing lots of
clapping and thank yous. If you're not looking at the chat, Chris, the thank yous are rolling in
in waves. I think everybody had a really good time today. I saw lots of nodding in the chat.
Thank you, Kristen, as well, for joining us and helping add context and stuff. Everybody,
as a reminder, we'll see you next week with Arsenis, a data scientist from Indeed. We love
seeing you. Say hi to me on LinkedIn. In the meantime, if you send me a connection request,
please put a note on it saying you're from the Hangout and I will see you on the Discord server.
Bye-bye, everybody. See you next week.
Bye-bye.